README.md, before:

# ![cipy rules](./assets/cipy_rules_small.png) files-to-review app

> A GitHub App built with [Probot](https://github.com/probot/probot) that either comments on pull request
that certain files require review from predefined team or requests review from that team when certain file(s)
(e.g. LICENSE, etc.) is submitted with pull request [pr]. See the following diagram for details:

![legal-to-review flow](./assets/legal-to-review-flow.png?raw=true)

## Setup

### Default config

By default app works in `comment-on-pull-request` mode and matches pull request's files against the following
pattern:
```regexp
(licen(s|c)e)|(copyright)|(code.?of.?conduct)
```
as a result comment (similar to the one below) gets added to the pull request.

![legal-should-review comment](./assets/comment.png?raw=true)


### Configuration description

One can configure several review criteria in `./github/config.yml` accroding to the following structure:
```yaml
reviewCriteria:
  - configName:
    name: 'display-name'
    regexp: 'pattern-to-search-for'
    teams?:
      - 'optional-reviewers-team-name'

  ...
```
Note that `teams` parameter is optional and when it is provided given `review criteria` results in app working
in `request-review-to-team` mode that manifests itself in adding team(s) to reviewers list similarly to
the picture below:

![review-request to legal](./assets/review-request.png?raw=true)

### Example

Setting the following configuration in `.github/config.yml` turns on `request-review-to-team` for `legal`
when corresponding files are modified (e.g. *LICENSE*) and `comment-on-pull-request` for `ui-experts` when UI files
are modified:
```yaml
reviewCriteria:
  - legal:
    name: 'legal-to-review'
    regexp: '(licen(s|c)e)|(copyright)|(code.?of.?conduct)'
    teams:
      - 'legal'
  - ui-experts:
    name: 'ui-experts-to-review'
    regexp: '\.css$'
```
and results in actions similar to the following pull request:

![both-modes](./assets/combined.png?raw=true)

## TODO

Introduce the following features:
* Issue comment even when `team` is provided so that team members can start review with focusing on area of interest files.
  Will be especially handy when files are scattered within larger repositories.
* Add possibility to `request-review-to-team` based on PR author's team membership. This is especially handy when junior
  developer joins the org and his contributions should be reviewed by someone from mentors team.
* Consider acting on pull request updates.

## Contributing

If you have suggestions for how files-to-review could be improved, or want to report a bug, open an issue! We'd love all and any contributions.

For more, check out the [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

[ISC](LICENSE) © 2019 Jacek Centkowski <geminica.programs@gmail.com>

Commit message:

Update README.md and assets to reflect flow change
Indicate that `comment-on-pull-request` is performed always and
`request-review-to-team` only when team(s) is/are configured.

README.md, after:

# ![cipy rules](./assets/cipy_rules_small.png) files-to-review app

> A GitHub App built with [Probot](https://github.com/probot/probot) that comments on pull request
that certain files require review from predefined team and requests review from that team when certain file(s)
(e.g. LICENSE, etc.) is submitted with pull request [pr]. The latter action is performed only when team(s) is
configured. See the following diagram for details:

![legal-to-review flow](./assets/legal-to-review-flow.png?raw=true)

## Setup

### Default config

By default app works in `comment-on-pull-request` mode and matches pull request's files against the following
pattern:
```regexp
(licen(s|c)e)|(copyright)|(code.?of.?conduct)
```
as a result comment (similar to the one below) gets added to the pull request.

![legal-should-review comment](./assets/comment.png?raw=true)


### Configuration description

One can configure several review criterias in `./github/config.yml` according to the following structure:
```yaml
reviewCriteria:
  - configName:
    name: 'display-name'
    regexp: 'pattern-to-search-for'
    teams?:
      - 'optional-reviewers-team-name'

  ...
```
Note that `teams` parameter is optional and when it is provided given `review criteria` results in app issuing
2 actions `comment-on-pull-request` and `request-review-to-team` that manifests itself commenting which files
need to be reviewed and adding team(s) to reviewers list.

#### Example

Setting the following configuration in `.github/config.yml`
```yaml
reviewCriteria:
  - legal:
    name: 'legal-to-review'
    regexp: '(licen(s|c)e)|(copyright)|(code.?of.?conduct)'
    teams:
      - 'legal'
  - ui-experts:
    name: 'ui-experts-to-review'
    regexp: '\.css$'
```
results in the following actions being performed:
* comment indicating files to be reviewed by `legal-to-review` is added
* `legal` team is added to the _Reviewers_ list
* comment indicating files to be reviewed by `ui-experts-to-review` is added

It looks similar to the following pull request:

![both-modes](./assets/combined.png?raw=true)

## TODO

Introduce the following feature(s):
* Add possibility to `request-review-to-team` based on PR author's team membership. This is especially handy when junior
  developer joins the org and his contributions should be reviewed by someone from mentors team.
* Consider acting on pull request updates.

## Contributing

If you have suggestions for how files-to-review could be improved, or want to report a bug, open an issue! We'd love all and any contributions.

For more, check out the [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

[ISC](LICENSE) © 2019 Jacek Centkowski <geminica.programs@gmail.com>
